ANTS 2.0 (April 2024)
=====================

.. attention::

  Please note this is a major release and as such contains breaking changes.


For a full list of changes see the release ticket :ticket:`2266`.

A major part of this release is to update ANTS to use `iris 3.7.1`_ and as such many other
dependencies used by ANTS have also been updated. As a consequence of the dependency
updates there are known changes to memory and runtime performance, so job limits may
need to be reviewed.

Features
--------

- :ticket:`1935` ANTS is now updated to use `iris 3.7.1`_.
- :ticket:`1838` A new search method has been introduced making use of the KDTree
  algorithm. This provides an alternative to the spiral search for filling missing data,
  as used in ``ants.cli.ancil_fill_n_merge.py`` and ``ants.cli.ancil_general_regrid.py``.
- :ticket:`1409` Lakes to be added in the CCI preprocessor are now user configurable.

Incompatible changes
--------------------

- :ticket:`1925` The deprecated ``ants.save`` function has been removed. Saving data
  with ANTS must now be done via the functions in the :mod:`ants.io.save` module.
- :ticket:`1924` There is no longer a default TwoStage horizontal regridding scheme.
  Similarly to the vertical regridding scheme, the horizontal regridding scheme now
  needs to be explicitly specified.

Infrastructure
--------------

- :ticket:`2273` Warnings are now treated as errors in unit tests.

Documentation
-------------

- :ticket:`2303` The documentation now uses the more accessible `pydata theme
  <https://pydata-sphinx-theme.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_.


.. _iris 3.7.1: https://scitools-iris.readthedocs.io/en/v3.7.1/index.html
