ANTS 2.1 (February 2025)
========================

For a full list of changes see the release ticket :ticket:`2325`.

Features
--------

- :ticket:`2420` A latitude weighted search method is now available making use of the
  KDTree search algorithm introduced in ANTS 2.0. With this option enabled, points of
  similar latitudes are preferentially selected over points at different latitudes.

Bugs fixed
----------

- :ticket:`2381` The cache location for cartopy data is now configurable via an
  environment variable ``ANTS_CARTOPY_CACHE``.
- :ticket:`2383` Fixed a bug where in some cases the merge routine for two datasets with
  identical coordinates resulted in different coordinates for the merged cube.
- :ticket:`2010` ANTS is now consistent with iris in identifying depths in F03 ancillary
  files.

Deprecations
------------

- :ticket:`2401` The load interface has been moved from :mod:`ants.fileformats` to
  :mod:`ants.io.load`. As part of this ticket all support for UGRID in ANTS has been
  removed: all UGRID functionality has been replaced by UG-ANTS.

Infrastructure
--------------

- :ticket:`2501` The ``rose-stem`` test suite has now been upgraded to be cylc 8 native.
- :ticket:`2414` ``nccmp`` is now included in the ANTS environment.
- :ticket:`1922` A sample application has been added to contrib to provide a template to
  follow when adding new applications.
- :ticket:`2459` KGOs are no longer included as part of the ANTS repository. KGOs
  are now generated on a per platform basis, for instructions see :doc:`/tutorial_KGO`.

Documentation
-------------

ANTS 2.1 includes a major documentation rewrite as part of :ticket:`2362`. Improvements
to the documentation include:

- :ticket:`2478` A new :doc:`/glossary`.
- :ticket:`2395` A re-write of the :doc:`tutorial </tutorial_application>`.
- :ticket:`2391` A re-write of the :doc:`install instructions </install>`.
- :ticket:`2479` A new release notes page.
- :ticket:`2390` A re-write of the :doc:`contributing </contributing>` page.
- :ticket:`2394` A new :doc:`/ancillary_generation_pipeline` page.
